---
title: "Lab Report 9 (Experiment 12)"
date: 2025-12-04 00:00:00 -0400
class: Chem1040Lab
---

Class: Chem 1040 Lab <br>
Subject/Topics: Chemistry <br>
Date: 12/04/2025 <br>
Teacher: Jennifer Kist <br>

# Introduction

The objectives for this lab were to demonstrate Boyle's Law by measuring the pressure of a gas at various volumes and to observe Amonton's Law by measuring the pressure of a gas at various temperatures. The first objective was achieved by setting up a syringe to connect to a pressure sensor and then changing the volume inside the syringe and seeing how the pressure changes. The second objective was achieved by placing the filtering flask in warm water and then reducing the temperature using ice and seeing how the pressure changed. Graphs were made for both objectives to show the pressure over volume and temperature.

The concepts that relate lab to lecture were Boyle's Law, Amonton's Law, and Gas Laws.

The lab techniques graphing with the LabQuest system, measuring pressure with pressure sensor, and measuring temperature with a temperature probe.

# Experimental Procedure

The procedure followed was that which was provided in the handout downloaded from Chem21labs.com Experiment 12: Behavior of Gases pg. 7-9.

# Questions

1. Explain how you used the graph of Vsyringe vs. 1/Pair to determine the value of Vtubing.
   The value of v(tubing) was determined from the graph of v(syringe) vs. 1/P(air) by finding the y intercept and changing the sign. The y intercept was found by graphing the data in Excel then creating a trendline showing the equation on the graph. This gave the value of 0.7335.
2. Which plot or plots generated by manipulating Pair and Vair demonstrate Boyle's Law? Explain your answer.
   Plot two. Pressure is inversely proportional to volume. The graph shows pressure = 1/V which is exactly what Boyle's Law represents.
3. Express the slope of the line in this plot algebraically in terms of the quantities _n_, _R_, and _T_. Recall the Ideal Gas Law equation, PV = nRT, and that any straight line has the general formula _y_ = _mx_ + _b_.
   The slope of the line would be nRT. This is because the y axis is P and the x axis is 1/V. In the equation P=(nRT)/V, but the graph shows P=1/V so the slope is nRT.
4. Enter your slope from the Vsyringe vs. 1/Pair plot (mL-torr)
   1697.4
    1. b. Using your answer to Question 3 and the slope from the Vsyringe vs. 1/Pair plot (mL-torr), and assuming that the temperature of the laboratory is 298 K, how many grams of air (average molecular weight 28.8 g/mol) were in your sample of air? Be careful with units!
       0.0026
5. Why must you be careful not to grasp the barrel of the syringe when making pressure measurements?
   You can't grasp the barrel of the syringe because our body heat will change the internal temperature which will affect the pressure inside the syringe.
6. How is the value of κ which you calculated related to _T_, the temperature in Kelvins? Using your value of κ, write the formula for conversion of the Celsius temperature _t_ to the Kelvin temperature _T_.
   The value of K is 283.13. It was calculated by dividing the y intercept by slope in the pressure(air) vs temperature graph. It is related to T by this formula T(K) = T(C) + K. 

    T(K) = T(C) + 273.13

7. Your formula may differ from the usually accepted formula _T_ = _t_(°C) + 273.15. The error is most probably not your fault, but instead is due to the way in which the experiment was done and the value of κ calculated. Why might your experimental value differ from the accepted value?
   Our value differs from the expected because the inside of the glass is being assumed to be the same temperature as the outer water temperature. Also where the glass is placed inside the water can effect the pressure/temp readings.
8. Use the Ideal Gas Equation to express the slope of your plot of Pair _vs_. _t_ algebraically in terms of _n_, _R_, and _V_.
   The slope would be expressed as nR/V. This is because the equation would be set up as P=nRT/V where the graph shows that T is the slope because that is the x axis. So, the final equation is that which is showed above.
9. Explain how your plot of Pair _vs_. _t_ provides a test of the validity of Amontons’ Law.
   Our graph of P (air) vs T shows the validity of Amonton's Law because the relationship between the x and y-axis is linear. Also, if the trend line is extrapolated back to x=0 the y value would also be ~0. This is consistent with Amonton's Law which states that P is directly proportional to T at a fixed amount of gas and a constant pressure.

# Conclusion

The objective of demonstrating Boyle's Law by measuring the pressure of a gas at various volumes was accomplished by setting up an apparatus such that a syringe was directly connected to a pressure sensor, which was connected to the LabQuest system. This allowed us to change the volume of the syringe without any other changes to the temperature or amount of gas. The second objective of observing Amonton's Law by measuring the pressure of a gas at various temperatures was achieved by setting up a system where the pressure sensor was connected to a filter flask set in warm water. The water was then gradually cooled. Periodic measurements were taken to graph the pressure vs. temperature. 

Both graphs created from our experimental data make sense. They are both linear, and for the pressure vs. temperature graph when extrapolating the graph to x=0 the y value also is about 0 as well, which demonstrates Amonton's Law of pressure is proportional to temperature at constant gas and volume.
