---
title: "Lab Report 1"
date: 2025-09-16 00:00:00 -0400
class: Chem1040Lab
---

Class: Chem 1040 Lab <br>
Subject/Topics: Chemistry <br>
Date: 09/16/2025 <br>
Teacher: Jennifer Kist <br>

## Introduction

The objective of the first experiment was to become familiar with the LabQuest system, collect measurements of temperature as a function of time, send the screenshot of the plot of temperature vs. time to a UC email, learn to use laboratory and analytical balances, a volumetric pipet, a buret, and compare the accuracy of the different types of glassware for measuring volumes. **This was accomplished** in two different parts. The first part was heating water to a boil and using a temperature probe to track the temperature over time and record that using the LabQuest system. After the experiment was done, the resulting graph was sent to a UC email for later use. In the second part of the experiment, multiple different types of tools were used to measure volumes of water. This was done by taking an initial mass of the object, then taking the mass after the water was added. By subtracting those values and finding the density based on the temperature of the water, the exact volume of water could be determined. After finding the volume of water, the percent accuracy can be determined to find how close the measurement was to the target value. The **concepts** from the lecture used in this lab were the use of significant figures, density, and analysis of precision and accuracy. The **lab techniques** used in this lab were measuring volumes with various tools, using a temperature probe to measure the temperature of boiling water over time, and measuring the mass of objects using the analytical scale.

## Experimental Procedure

The procedure followed was what was provided in the handout downloaded from Chem21labs.com Experiment 1: Tools for Lab Measurements pg. 3-4 and 5-8.

## Questions

2. Consider your temperature vs. time plot. Discuss the general shape of the curve. What regions of differing behavior (differing slope) can you distinguish on the plot? What accounts for the behaviors observed?
    - The shape of our temperature vs. time graph is a steep incline as it reaches a boil. After reaching the boil it levels off at 100 degrees Celsius until the hot plate was turned off. It subsequently had a soft curve down as the water cooled to room temperature. There are three distinct regions in this graph. The heating till boil, the consistent temperature at the boiling point, and the slight decline when the water was cooling after the hot plate was turned off. These behaviors were caused by the hot plate being turned on, the water reaching its boiling point, and the hot plate being turned off.
3. What is the sensitivity of the analytical balance; that is, what is the smallest amount of mass that it can detect?
    - The analytical balance went to three places after the decimal point (the thousandths). The smallest amount of mass it can detect is 0.001 g.
4. According to your measurements, what is the precision of the balance; that is, what is the largest difference between repeated measurements of a particular object (or objects)?
    - The precision of the balance was 0.178. This was the largest difference between measurements of the same object. It was from the buret measurements and was likely due to water being leftover in the bottle from the previous trial.
5. Based on your individual results for relative error, list the glassware in order from least to most accurate.
    - My least accurate measurements based on relative error from least to most accurate were: beaker at 3.732%, graduated cylinder at 1.596%, pipet at 0.69% and the most accurate was the buret at 0.005%. This list uses the lower relative error from the two trials.
6. Recall that accuracy reflects how close a measurement is to the true, or target, value.
   **a.** Use the pooled results summarized in the histograms (group plots - available the post lab PowerPoint) to state which piece of glassware measures volume with the greater accuracy--beaker or graduated cylinder. How do you determine this from the histograms?
   **b.** Compare the relative accuracies of the pipet and buret.
   **c.** How do the group plots compare to your individual data? Which set of data, the group plots or your individual data, do you feel is more reliable? Why?
    - a. Between the beaker and graduated cylinder, the graduated cylinder was more accurate than the beaker. This is proven through the mean of both data sets because the mean for the beaker is 47.037 mL whereas, the graduated cylinder is 50.364 mL. The mean for the graduated cylinder is closer to the target value so it has the greater accuracy. It also has a lower standard deviation which means that more people were precise with it as well.
    - b. The pipet vs. buret comparison is much closer with the pipet having a mean closer to the target value of 10 which means that more people were accurate with the pipet. The standard deviation is also lower which means that more people were consistently close to the target value when using the pipet vs. the buret. 
    - c. My individual data is different then the data shown in the group plot. The biggest difference is my most accurate tool was the buret rather than the pipet. In my opinion I thought that it was easier to slowly decrease the amount of water in the buret until it reached the target value compared to the pipet. The order for the beaker and the graduated cylinder was the same for me as well with the beaker being the least accurate followed by the graduated cylinder. The group data is more reliable than my personal data set due to the fact that there are more data points. The larger the data set the more reliable it will be esspecially because I'm not anywhere close to an expert when using these tools.
7. Recall that precision is defined as the reproducibility of a measurement (how closely repeated measurements agree with each other). The histograms also give us information regarding the relative precision of each piece of glassware by showing how widely spread out the values are around the mean value. This can be expressed mathematically as a standard deviation (sd). For a normal (i.e., Gaussian, or bell-shaped) distribution of data, about two-thirds of the measurements will fall within a range from one sd above the mean to one sd below. The standard deviations for each piece of glassware are given at the bottom of each group plot page.
   **a.** Compare the relative precisions of the beaker and graduated cylinder. Explain how you came to your conclusion.
   **b.** Compare the relative precision of the pipet and buret. Describe one possible source of error when using the pipet.
    - a. The relative precisions between the beaker and the graduated cylinder are quite different. The graduated cylinder had a much lower standard deviation than the beaker. This means that the measurements for the graduated cylinder were consistently closer to each other when compared to the beaker which had very inconsistent measurements over repeated attempts.
    - b. The pipet has a lower standard deviation meaning that over repeated attempts it was consistent with the measurements obtained. The buret had a slightly higher standard deviation so it was a little less precise over repeated attempts, but not by much. One possible source of error when using the pipet would be trying to get all the leftover water stuck in it. I remember the TA saying that the pipet accounts for the leftover water, so if all of the leftover water was forced out then the water measurements would be incorrect.
8. Suppose you had used carbon tetrachloride, a liquid of density 2.20 g/mL, to determine the actual volume measured by your pipet. What differences would there be in mass of the liquid measured and the actual volume of liquid measured for carbon tetrachloride compared to the same values for water?
    - The main differences would be that the density of water at room temperature is about 1 g/mL. When changing that by using carbon tetrachloride which has a density of 2.2 g/Ml. If the same procedure was done, but the water was swapped for carbon tetrachloride there would still be 10 mL of liquid, but the mass would be 2.2 times greater than that of water. However, the actual volume should stay the same because the density would cancel out when making the actual volume conversion.
9. Is there a correlation between the accuracy of a particular piece of glassware and its ease of use? Explain why it is sometimes more appropriate to use a beaker than a pipet or buret.
    - There is a correlation between using a particular piece of glassware and getting different measurements based on the ease of use, especially when using it for the first time. There are cases when using a beaker is more practical than a pipet. For example, if the procedure calls for gathering ~50 mL of water it would be much more practical to gather that in a beaker and than a pipet especially because it doesn't have to be an exact 50 mL measurement. This was the case in our first experiment when heating water. It would have been very inconvenient to heat the water in a pipet rather than a beaker.

## Conclusion

The objective of becoming more familiar with the LabQuest system was achieved by using it to measure the temperature of water over time and then plotting that graph and eventually using it to send a screenshot of the graph to an email address. Also, by measuring out water with various glassware, then finding the volume of water based on the mass and density a conclusion about the most accurate tools for measuring water could be formed. Based on the classes data the accuracy for the tools in least to most accurate order are the beaker, graduated cylinder, buret, and pipet. My measurements differ from this because the buret had the lowest relative error instead of the pipet. This was likely due to experimental error and inexperience with the tools being used.
